


d.text <main>	     GRASS Reference Manual	    <main> d.text



NAME
     d.text - Draws text in the	active display frame on	the
     graphics monitor.
     (GRASS Display Program)

SYNOPSIS
     d.text
     d.text help
     d.text [size=value] [color=name] [line=value]

DESCRIPTION
     d.text draws text in the active display frame on the
     graphics monitor.	Text can be provided through standard
     input or redirected from a	file (using the	UNIX redirection
     mechanism).


     Parameters:

     size=value	       Height of letters, stated as a percent of
		       the available display frame height.
		       Options:	 0 - 100
		       Default:	 5

     color=name	       Sets display text color to name.
		       Options:	 red, orange, yellow, green,
		       blue, indigo, violet, gray, white, and
		       black
		       Default:	 gray

     line=value	       The screen line number on which the first
		       line of text will be drawn.
		       (Line 1 is at the top of	the active
		       display frame.)
		       Options:	 1 - 1000
		       Default:	 1

     In	addition to the	options	provided on the	command	line,
     colors, text size,	font type, and boldness, can be	adjusted
     with commands in the standard input (i.e.,	if the user
     invokes d.text without options on the command line, and then
     assigns values to these options on	lines within the standard
     input).  In this case, the	user also sees the standard GRASS
     parser interface described	in the manual entry for	parser.

     Commands:
      .C color
     (where color is one of the	available colors) causes text
     appearing on subsequent lines to be drawn in that color.

     Text size can be adjusted with the	command:
      .S size



GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			1






d.text <main>	     GRASS Reference Manual	    <main> d.text



     (where size is a percentage within	the range 0 to 100).
     Note that a size of 10 would allow	10 lines to be drawn in
     the active	display	frame, 5 would allow the drawing of 20
     lines, and	50 would allow the drawing of 2	lines.

     Font type can be manipulated using	the command:
      .F font
     (where font is one	of the fonts known by the GRASS	program
     d.font).  Available fonts are listed in the GRASS manual
     entry for d.font.	The default font type used (if
     unspecified by the	user) is romans.  Run the GRASS	macro
     show.fonts.sh to see what these fonts look	like.

     The user can also stipulate that text be printed in bold on
     lines beneath the command:
      .B 1
     This command means	bold on	.
     Similarly,	the command:
      .B 0
     turns bold	off of all text	appearing on lines beneath it.
     (Bold off is used by default, if unspecified by the user.)

EXAMPLE
     The following command will	print the short	phrase "This is	a
     test of d.text" in	the active display frame using the color
     yellow, in	bold, and using	4/100'ths (4%) of the active
     frame's vertical space per	line:

	    d.text
	    .C yellow
	    .S 4
	    .B 1
	    This is a test of d.text

     The user presses control-d	(the "ctrl" and	"d" keys) to end
     input to d.text.

NOTES
     Note that the GRASS command d.title creates map titles in a
     format suitable for input to d.text.

     d.text needs escape sequences that	can be used within lines
     to	change colors, boldness, and perhaps size.

SEE ALSO
     d.font, d.title, show.fonts.sh, and parser

AUTHOR
     James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory





GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			2



