
  List of man-pages to be changed for GRASS 5.x (FP-support etc.)


  -> Updated 8. Oct. 99- in sync with GRASS5 beta4


This is an incomplete list of man-pages which have to be 
updated. Changed modules, which have to be used interactively 
are not (yet) listed here.

- If no man page is available, all parameters and flags are
  listed here. 
- If a man-page is available, just the changed
  parameters and flags are listed here.


My suggestions to proceed for man-page updating:

 - Update the old manpages in HTML-Format (source:
   http://www.geog.uni-hannover.de/grass/gdp/html_421/
   )
 - convert them later to "man"-format with g.html2man
   This modules is included from GRASS 5beta (2e) onwards.
   NOTE: The HTML-tags have to be written in bold characters
         to be recognized by g.html2man.


Cheers

  Markus Neteler


--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Checklist for new/changed parameters:

 d.3d
  -n   Show null elevations

 d.histogram
  -n   Display information for null cells
  -C   Report for ranges defined in cats file (fp maps only)
  nsteps   Number of steps to divide the data range into (fp maps only)
           default: 255

 d.pan  -> no man-page available
 d.pan2 -> no man-page available (one module is enough here!)
  -q   Quiet
  zoom   magnification: >1.0 zooms in, <1.0 zooms out
         options: 0.001-1000.0
         default: 1.0


 d.rast
  -i   Invert catlist
  catlist   List of categories to be displayed
  vallist   List of values to be displayed
       bg   Background color (for null)

 f.wsurf -> not working at all, isn't it?

 g.setproj -> LAEA and LEAC projection added recently in 5.0

 i.points3 -> no man page available

 i.rectify3 -> no man page available
  -o   Overwrite target imagery files
  -c   Use current target region
  -m   Use minimal target region
  -q   Run quietly
  -v   Verbose output
   group   Imagery group to be rectified
  source   Source raster file to be rectified
  target   Target name of rectified image
   trans   Transformation type [poly1|poly2|poly3|photo|landtm]
       n   Value for the northern edge
       s   Value for the southern edge
       e   Value for the eastern edge 
       w   Value for the western edge 
     res   Grid resolution (both north-south and east-west)
   nsres   North-south grid resolution
   ewres   East-west grid resolution  


 i.tape.tm3 -> no man page available
  -e   Only examine (not extract) data
  -q   Run quietly
      input   Filename or name of tape drive device
  blocksize   Block size of tape device
      group   Name of imagery group
     output   Prefix for names of created raster maps
      bands   LandSat TM Bands to import
       rows   First and last rows of extracted region
       cols   First and last columns of extracted region
      title   Title for extracted bands


 r.cats
  vals   Comma separated value list: e.g. 1.4,3.8,13

 r.cost
  max_cost   An optional maximum cumulative cost

 r.describe
  -i   read fp map as integer
  nv   string representing no data cell value
  nsteps   number of quantization steps

 r.dist -> ? (already fp?)

 r.hydro.CASC2D ->?

 r.in.arc -> no man page available
   input   ARC/INFO ascii raster file to be imported
  output   Name for resultant raster map
    type   Storage type for resultant raster map
           options: CELL,FCELL,DCELL
           default: FCELL
   title   Title for resultant raster map
    mult   Multiplier for ascii data


 r.in.ascii
  -i   integer values are imported
  -f   floating point values are imported
  -d   double floating point values are imported
  nv   String representing NULL value data cell


 r.in.bin -> no man page available
 -s   Signed data (high bit means negative value)
   input   Bin raster file to be imported
  output   Name for resultant raster map
   title   Title for resultant raster map
    mult   Multiplier for bin data
           default: 1.0
   bytes   Number of bytes per cell (1, 2, 4)
           default: 1
   north   Northern limit of geographic region
   south   Southern limit of geographic region
    east   Eastern limit of geographic region
    west   Western limit of geographic region
       r   Number of rows
       c   Number of columns
   subst   Replace 1st value by 2nd one.


 r.mapcalc
  - needs update: for example:
        difference beteen  new = old * 100 and 
                           new = old * 100.

 r.out.ascii
  -i   Output integer category values, not cell values
    dp   number of decimal places
  null   Char string to represent no data cell

 r.out.xyz -> no man page available
  input   Name of raster file.

 r.recode -> no man page available
  -a   Align the current region to the input map
   input   Raster map to be recoded
  output   Name for the resulting raster map
   title   Title for the resulting raster map


 r.report
  -n   filter out all no data cells
  -N   filter out cells where all maps have no data
  -C   report for cats fp ranges (fp maps only)
  -i   Read fp map as integer (use map's quant rules
    null   string representing no data cell value
  nsteps   number of fp subranges to collect stats from


 r.resamp.rst -> no man page available
  -r   Do zeroes in input map represent elevation?
  -d   Output partial derivatives instead
  -h   Display reference information
    input   Name of the input raster file
   ew_res   Desired East-West resolution
   ns_res   Desired North-South resolution
     elev   Output z-file (elevation)
    slope   Slope
   aspect   Aspect
    pcurv   Profile curvature
    tcurv   Tangential curvature
    mcurv   Mean curvature
   smooth   Name of the cell file containing smoothing
  maskmap   Name of the raster file used as mask
  overlap   Rows/columns overlap for segmentation 
            default: 3
    zmult   Conversion factor for z-values
            default: 1.0
  tension   Tension



 r.stats
  -n   Suppress reporting of any NULLs
  -N   Suppress reporting of NULLs when all values are NULL
  -C   report for cats fp ranges (fp maps only)
  -r   Print raw indexes of fp ranges (fp maps only)
  -i   Read fp map as integer (use map's quant rules)


 r.sum -> no man page available
  rast   Name of incidence or density file.


 r.support
  The null file for [cir549] might indicate that some cells contain
  Do you want to create/reset null file for [cir549] so that
  Do you want to delete null file for [cir549] 

 r.surf.area
   input   Raster file for surface.
  vscale   Vertical scale

 r.to.sites -> no man page available
  not in new sites API yet!
    input   Name of an existing raster map
  output   sites file to be made from raster file


 r.what
  -c   Turn on cache reporting
  -i   Output integer category values, not cell values
  cache   Size of point cache
   null   Char string to represent no data cell


 s.in.ascii
  -e   Attribute field to import represents elevation heights


 s.surf.krig -> no man page available
    input   Name of input site map
     outz   Name of output z value raster map
  outvarz   Name of output z variance raster map
    model   Type of semivariogram model to be used
            options: power,spherical,exp,log,gaussian
  npoints   Number of interpolation points
            default: 12
    range   Not used with log or power models
            default: 1.0
    power   Only for use with the power model
            default: 1.0
   nugget   The variogram nugget variance
            default: 0.0
     sill   The variogram sill scaled to the sample variance
            default: 1.0
  max_lag   The max_lag is only used with the power model



 v.digit is former v.digspline 
   new: spline interpolation 

 v.in.shape -> no man page available
      input   Name of .shp file to be imported
     mapset   Name of mapset to hold resulting files (Default = current)
    verbose   Debugging level : 0 (silent) - 9 (verbose)
              default: 0
    logfile   Name of file where log operations
  attribute   Name of attribute to use as category


So. 
Then there are several scripts without manpage...
i.spectral         r.out.arctiff      s.out.gps
d.rast.leg         i.tasscap          r.out.bil          tiger.info
d.rast.rescale     m.statistics       r.out.geotiff      v.cutter.attr
g.html2man         ps.add.pagesize    r.reclass.area     v.in.gps
i.image.mosaic     r.edge.dig         r.regression.line  v.line2area
i.oif              r.in.arctiff       s.in.gps           v.xfig


